School can be stressful, whether you're in a classroom, or able to be schooled at home.
Even the best students have days where they'd rather be anywhere else.
And just because you're there doesn't mean you're always plugged into what's happening.
For example, do you deal with anxiety or depression?
Are you among the many young people who get bored at school or find it difficult to focus in the classroom?
Does your family rely on you for financial support?
Do you worry about bullies or violence at school?
Problems like these can discourage you.
You could start to skip classes and your grades may suffer.
The more you fall behind, the easier it is to listen to that little voice inside that says,
just drop out.
But wait!
The Bible says that a smart person thinks about each step he or she takes.
So first, think about how school can help you.
The real benefit of a basic education is more than just the subjects you study.
Education is training for your brain by studying a variety of subjects.
You learn how to learn and practical skills such as reading and writing.
Things you'll need to do in the real world.
The Bible encourages us to safeguard practical wisdom and thinking ability.
School is a great place to sharpen your problem solving skills
and learn more about yourself and the people around you.
Of course, the challenges you face don't just disappear.
But staying in school trains you to deal with them.
You learn self-discipline and how to prioritize what's important.
You could learn a skill and find work after you graduate.
If you drop out, your options for future employment may be limited.
A good education also protects you.
When you're well informed, it's harder for others to take advantage of you.
So if you're struggling at school, don't give up.
Reach out to someone, your parents, I'm a sure friend or teacher for help.
In areas where the law permits it, some parents may choose to homeschool their children.
Wherever you attend class, make it a goal to stick with it and stay focused.
Eat nutritious foods, exercise and get enough sleep.
When your body is healthy, your brain works better.
The Bible says that there is benefit and hard work.
It's worth the effort to finish school.
School can help you discover and nurture abilities you never knew you had.
Train you to think and solve problems.
And prepare you to handle the responsibilities that life brings your way.